# LZWCompression

In this project we used the LZW compression algorithm to compress and expand files. 
What I have done is implemented three different modes for this compression algorithm : 
  1. **Do Nothing mode**  Do nothing and continue to use the full codebook (this is already implemented by LZW.java).
  2. **Reset mode** Reset the dictionary back to empty so that new codewords can be added. Be careful to reset at 
     the appropriate place for both compression and expansion, so that the algorithms remain in sync.  
     This is very tricky and may require alot of planning in order to get it working correctly.
  3. **Monitor mode**  Initially do nothing (keep using the full codebook) but begin monitoring the *compression ratio*     after no more 16 bit codewords remain.  Define the compression ratio to be the size of the original data that has been   consumed so far divided by the size of the (compressed) output data produced so far.  At any point in time, the size of the original data is simply the number of bits of the input file that have been processed.  The size of the output data can also be easily calculated, and is based on the number of codewords output and the size of each (which will change as the algorithm progresses).  If the compression ratio degrades by more than a set threshold from the point when the last codeword was added then reset the dictionary to empty.  To determine the threshold for resetting you will take a ratio of compression ratios [(old ratio)/(new ratio)], where old ratio is the ratio recorded when your program entered Monitor mode, and new ratio is the current compression ratio.  If the ratio of ratios exceeds 1.1 then you should reset.  For example, if the compression ratio when you start monitoring is 2.5 and the compression ratio at some later point is 2.3, the ratio of ratios at that point would be 2.5/2.3 = 1.087, so you should not reset the dictionary.  Continuing, if your compression ratio drops to 2.2, the ratio of ratios would become 2.5/2.2 or 1.136. This means that your ratio of ratios has exceeded the threshold of 1.1 and you should now reset the dictionary.  As with the changing of the codeword bits, be very careful to coordinate the code for both compression and expansion so that it works correctly.
